# Optimizing-Gender-Equality
This research elucidates gender inequality in STEM fields in western China, leveraging extensive data from the China Education Panel Survey (CEPS) encompassing 20,000 students from 112 schools. It explores disparities in educational outcomes and aspirations in STEM, framed by gender and economic backgrounds. The study employs a muti-objective optimization model to categorize schools by location and rank and an iterative resource allocation process to propose an equitable resource allocation method to mitigate gender gaps. 

# Acknowledgement
Gender inequality in education in Western China is a muti-dimensional issue that cannot be solved by any strategies along within a short period of time. It requires cooperation between various government sectors, NGOs, and charity organizations. However, an equitable resource allocation can be very useful in accelerating the process of creating an equitable education environment. 
During my time at Stanford Summer Session, I was fortunate to take the DATASCI 154 course where my groupmates Ecem Somyurek, Suhani Jain, Sandhya Gopinath and I proposed an optimization design for resource allocation to solve gender inequality in STEM in America. Inspired by this experience, I looked for datasets that can help me to apply a similar framework specifically to China. 
The dataset China Education Panel Survey (CEPS) allowed me to apply statistics tool and the optimization model to conduct this research. Considering the special circumstances and the features of the dataset, I categorized schools to different levels using their location and rank data. I allocated resource accordingly to the gender gap in Mathematics in each school type. I also considered students from different social economic background.

# Thanks
I would like to show my gratitude for my groupmates. It is our efforts together that inspired me to write this research paper. I would also like to thank my Stanford tutor, Doctor Mallory Nobles, without whose support I wouldn’t have constructed such an optimization model. I would also thank the scholars that have done the China Education Survey, it is their endeavor that makes a quantitative analysis in resource allocation possible.
